Now that we have learned the basic methods of manipulating the cash in Lavell using the cash for saved
let's implement something interesting.
So far we have used the cash to reduce the amount of the esky well queries that were made and we knew
that we won't need to make those queries.
Each time someone will visit our page.
So we implemented the cash for the most come into the blog post and most active users and last time.
We also implemented our simple cash to catch the blog posts with the comments for one hour.
In this lecture we'll actually implement a counter of the users that are currently on the page so far.
We have used the cash to reduce the amount of the queries made to the database.
So as I've said before if the cash back and system is it a redis or mem cached it's usually stored inside
the application memory.
So this is much faster than doing an obscure query and reading from the database.
Now this time will also use cash a little bit differently because previously we used that to reduce
the amount of the Eskew our queries made.
And this time we will store some information directly into cash and will read it directly into cash.
It won't be stored into the database so let's go ahead and start implementing this functionality.
So inside the post control our show action will add a new variable and call it counter.
It will begin by having the 0 assigned and now will pass this counter to our view so we can display
how many users are currently on the page.
So now let's open the show blade BHP template and maybe below the dates when the post was added or updated
will display information about how many people are currently on this page.
So we'll say currently read by counter
people save the changes and after you refresh we can see this text with the 0 people on the counter.
And now let's see a diagram of how this would be actually be implemented.
Now this is our diagram.
First let's take a look at the legend.
So the rectangle with normal lines would be something that we will do inside the code so it won't interact
with the cache and now rectangle with this dotted lines would mean that something will be actually read
or stored inside the cache and this symbol means that at this point we are making a decision.
So the condition is either true or false and here you can see the flow of how this algorithm will work.
So let's explain it from the beginning.
So for each blog post we will store two items inside the cache.
One of them would be the least of all the session ideas together with their last visit time and why
we are using this session.
Idea is because everyone who visits your page gets ultimately assigned a unique session I.D. that is
being then stored inside the browser cookie and it is sent whenever the user is making another request.
So this way we can easily uniquely identify users and another information under different key will be
the actual account or the number of users currently on the page
so our first step is to fetch the least of the users and their last visit time from the cash.
So inside this cash element we will store an array where the key is the session I.D. and the value is
the last visit time of the user now will iterate over this list and we will check whether the last visit
time for a particular user is more than one minute.
If it is we will remove this user from the list and decrease the counter so mind that we are decreasing
the counter for that user on the list.
We are not storing anything in cash yet if the user visited visited the page less than one minute ago
we will keep him on the list so we'll keep our separate variable which we then will only store inside
the cash with the users that should stay on that list.
So they are not expired.
Now we will verify if the current user is not on the list.
If he isn't on that list then we'll check if he was on that list but was expired.
So if the user is not in the least will simply increase the counter by 1.
Also if the user was on the list but was due to be removed because he visited the page more than one
minute ago will also increment countered by one.
But otherwise if those both conditions are false we are just store the users that should stay on the
list and then put down directly into the cash so we'll recalculate the list of those users that are
still active on each visit to this page
now finally we will see if the item in cash for the counter where we store the actual number of people
on the page actually exists in the cash if it doesn't will set the counter as one.
So we will set an initial value.
So one would actually represent the user currently on page and then we'll store it in cash forever so
we won't give it on expired time now.
Otherwise we'll just read the amount of users from the cash to display it to the user.
Don't worry right now.
If this seems to be complicated we will implement it step by step in the next lecture and we'll also
go back to this diagram to see what is actually happening.